---
title: "Autumn 2025 Tournament Announcements"
date: 2025-08-14
description: "Penn Bowl, ACF Fall, British Novice and other tournaments happening this term."
image:
  teaser:
    path: autumn-2025.png
    alt: Landscape
  feature: autumn-2025.png
---

The sun is shining, it’s warm outside (too warm if you ask me) and it’s the middle of August. It’s no surprise then that UKQB are planning ahead to shorter, cooler days where your Saturdays are devoted to quizbowl, which means we’re announcing the Autumn 2025 tournaments schedule!

We’ve got a packed term, with 8 tournaments of varying difficulty between now and Christmas. So without further ado, let’s meet the remainder of our 2025 tournaments.

**DART IV (13th September, online):** Kicking off the Autumn term, we have DART IV. Hosted by the University of Manchester, this 1.5 dot tournament is open to all, students and non-students alike.

**NAFTA (11th October, Oxford):** Then there’s a bit of a gap between September and October, but never fear quizbowl returns on 11th October with NAFTA. This 3.5 dot tournament is again open to all and will be hosted by Oxford University.

**ACF Fall (18th October, Durham/Cambridge):** The following week sees ACF Fall return to the UK once more. There have been mirrors of this 1 dot tournament since 2010, and the latest iteration sees a Northern mirror held at Durham University while the Southern mirror takes place at the University of Cambridge.

**Penn Bowl (1st November, LSE):** November sees another returning figure to the UK quizbowl circuit. The open tournament Penn Bowl is a 3 dot housewrite by the University of Pennsylvania. The winners of last year’s mirror were 3HK1MM, a team consisting of Enoch Yuen, Justin Lee, Adam Jones and Michael Mays.

**Scarlet Houseknight (8th November, Birmingham):** The second weekend in November sees the University of Birmingham hosting Scarlet Houseknight, 1.5 dot closed tournament aimed at students only.

**ACF Winter (15th November, Warwick):** The week after that we have ACF Winter, a 2 dot tournament. Last year’s champions, Oxford A (Omer Keskin, Delia Cropper, Ved Muthusamy and Eveline Ong), will defend their title at the University of Warwick.

**British Novice (29th November, Sheffield/Southampton):** Rounding out November we have the 9th iteration of the UK housewrite British Novice. This year’s set has been head edited by Jamie Burchett and Bredan Bethlehem and mirrors will be held at Northern and Southern sites.

**X, formerly known as TiTA (13th December, Imperial College London):** Now, something completely different to finish the Autumn semester. One of three UK pop culture housewrites, the 2 dot pop culture tournament X has been written by members of the UK quiz community and head edited by Rhys Lewis and Ben Richards.

X rounds off the Autumn term in UK Quizbowl, which is set to be an exciting term with a variety of tournaments. Watch this space for posts throughout the term including an introduction to quizbowl, how to improve at science in quizbowl, how to host a tournament and much more!
